{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## From {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/16/opinion/for-a-troubled-president-the-media-is-a-satisfying-target.html?action=click&pgtype=Homepage&clickSource=story-heading&module=opinion-c-col-left-region&region=opinion-c-col-left-region&WT.nav=opinion-c-col-left-region&_r=0"}}{\fldrslt https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/16/opinion/for-a-troubled-president-the-media-is-a-satisfying-target.html?action=click&pgtype=Homepage&clickSource=story-heading&module=opinion-c-col-left-region&region=opinion-c-col-left-region&WT.nav=opinion-c-col-left-region&_r=0}}\
\
\
SECTIONSHOMESEARCHSKIP TO CONTENTSKIP TO NAVIGATIONVIEW MOBILE VERSION\
The New York Times\
SUBSCRIBE\
LOG IN  SETTINGS\
Loading...\
The Opinion Pages | EDITORIAL\
\
For a Troubled President, the Media Is a Satisfying Target\
By THE EDITORIAL BOARDFEB. 16, 2017\
Continue reading the main storyShare This Page\
Share\
Tweet\
Email\
More\
Save\
Photo\
\
President Trump during a press conference on Thursday. Credit Stephen Crowley/The New York Times\
After a tumultuous month of incumbency, President Trump actually plans to begin his 2020 re-election campaign Saturday in Florida with one of his most vital campaign props in tow \'97 the news media that he makes a daily art form of undermining with institutional and personal attacks.\
\
\'93You know, you\'92re dishonest people,\'94 he told reporters at his news conference Thursday, with the ease of an insult comic in a Las Vegas lounge. \'93But I\'92m not ranting and raving. I love this. I\'92m having a good time doing it,\'94 the president was fair enough to admit as he lambasted the media nonstop.\
\
\'93Fake news!\'94 \'93Russia scam!\'94 \'93Ruse!\'94 he proclaimed, dismissing reports on the turmoil in his White House.\
\
After a while it began to make sense: Of course, Mr. Trump craves a break from the White House caldron for the familiar escape to another hyperbolic campaign stop at an airport hangar full of zealous supporters. He needed the press to play the punching bag that so delighted his political base. Aides filed for re-election on Inauguration Day, an extraordinary step that lets Mr. Trump raise campaign funds for what will be a state of endless campaigning.\
\
Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter\
Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.\
\
 Sign Up\
\
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.\
\
SEE SAMPLE PRIVACY POLICY\
The news conference proved to be another signature recapitulation of himself by himself \'97 Mr. Trump\'92s relentless superlatives of self-congratulation, his paint-ball putdowns of any and all critics, his swaggering dismissal of controversies already occurring in plain sight.\
\
Viewers may wonder why the president returned repeatedly to his media attacks. But the news workers who thrive on information more than insult already know the answer \'97 they\'92re a perfect distraction from real events hatched in Mr. Trump\'92s new administration, like the embarrassing retreat of his labor secretary nominee from Senate scrutiny, the dismissal of his national security adviser for secretly buttering up Russian adversaries and the courts\'92 unceremonious spiking of Mr. Trump\'92s unconstitutional attempt to choke off Middle East immigration with a photo-op stroke of his pen.\
\
\'93The press honestly is out of control,\'94 was Mr. Trump\'92s reaction to \'93fake news\'94 and \'93illegal leaks\'94 \'97 shocking news stories that originated with trusted news sources alarmed at what has been happening in less than a month of the Trump era.\
\
He\'92d better get used to it. American history shows there\'92s no reasonable alternative to the power of human curiosity in a democracy, especially when a president dares to claim exclusive ownership of reality.\
\
\'93Will we be incessantly harassed and vilified?\'94 Martin Baron, editor of The Washington Post, asked after the election. \'93The answer, I believe, is pretty simple,\'94 he said with barely a shrug. \'93Just do our job. Do it as it\'92s supposed to be done.\'94\
\
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. \
\
A version of this editorial appears in print on February 17, 2017, on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: A Troubled President\'92s Satisfying Target. Today's Paper|Subscribe\
\
Continue reading the main story\
TRENDING\
\
Full Transcript and Video: Trump News Conference\
\'91I Inherited a Mess,\'92 Trump Says, Defending His Performance\
Trump, Aggrieved and Sometimes Gregarious, Stands Up for Himself\
\
Trump\'92s Pick to Replace Flynn Turns Down the Job\
\
Public Health: Republican Health Proposal Would Redirect Money From Poor to Rich\
\
Fact Check: Trump Calls Press \'91Dishonest,\'92 Then Utters Falsehoods of His Own\
\
House G.O.P. Leaders Outline Plan to Replace Obama Health Care Act\
\
Editorial: Donald Trump\'92s Answer to Anti-Semitism? You Don\'92t Want to Know\
\
E.P.A. Workers Try to Block Pruitt in Show of Defiance\
\
Full Video: President Trump Holds Press Conference\
View More Trending Stories \'bb\
\
What's Next\
Loading...\
Go to Home Page \'bb\
SITE INDEX THE NEW YORK TIMES\
\
Site Index Navigation\
NEWS\
\
World\
U.S.\
Politics\
N.Y.\
Business\
Tech\
Science\
Health\
Sports\
Education\
Obituaries\
Today's Paper\
Corrections\
OPINION\
\
Today's Opinion\
Op-Ed Columnists\
Editorials\
Contributing Writers\
Op-Ed Contributors\
Opinionator\
Letters\
Sunday Review\
Taking Note\
Room for Debate\
Public Editor\
Video: Opinion\
ARTS\
\
Today's Arts\
Art & Design\
Books\
Dance\
Movies\
Music\
N.Y.C. Events Guide\
Television\
Theater\
Video: Arts\
LIVING\
\
Automobiles\
Crossword\
Food\
Education\
Fashion & Style\
Health\
Jobs\
Magazine\
N.Y.C. Events Guide\
Real Estate\
T Magazine\
Travel\
Weddings & Celebrations\
LISTINGS & MORE\
\
Classifieds\
Tools & Services\
Times Topics\
Public Editor\
N.Y.C. Events Guide\
Blogs\
Multimedia\
Photography\
Video\
NYT Store\
Times Journeys\
Subscribe\
Manage My Account\
SUBSCRIBE  Home Delivery   Digital Subscriptions   Times Insider   Crossword\
Email Newsletters  Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Corporate Subscriptions  Education Rate\
Mobile Applications  Replica Edition\
Site Information Navigation\
\'a9 2017 The New York Times Company HomeSearchAccessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.Contact UsWork With UsAdvertiseYour Ad ChoicesPrivacyTerms of ServiceTerms of Sale\
Site Information Navigation\
Site MapHelpSite FeedbackSubscriptions\
Get a one-year New York Times All Access subscription for $5 a week and get Spotify Premium free.ALREADY A SUBSCRIBER? LOG IN. All Your News\
All Your Music SUBSCRIBE NOW}